1. I am implementing the number method
    in that i have to do it in 3 parts get till numbers
    then get the dot if present and also check the next one
    then number again if fount the valid dot




11:48
So in this chapter, we do it like
1. crates a basic input output
2. creates a run method to run the script
3. add error logging method and flag to make script not to run
4. adds a scanner class to scan the tokens
5. to find the token we created all the tokens as enum
6. try to match them with current character.
7. use some methods like advance, peek, peek next
8. after identifying the character check if it is somewhat like !/>|< then check all the possible combos >=
9. after that identify the error and log it
10. find the numbers
    - find until other character is found.
    - find until . then some number is found
11. find the identifier
    - check if consumed string is know then give that type
    - if not known then mark it as identifier
12. also finding the comments and ignore until next line is not found.



21-05-2025
chapter 8
part 8.2

1. till now i implemented the smt just like the expr using the astgenerator
2. uses same pattern visitor one
3. differentiating between expression and print statement
4. uses the common pattern match for this.
5. now its about the variable which seems interesting


22-05-2025
Chapter 8
part 8.3

1. Environment is just a lookup table allows to store the variable name and the token details in it.
2. whenever we find a var declaration we try to consume the variable name and its value
3. if no value is present we define it as null (nil in this case)
4. Whenever we find some identifier, and we try to access it then it check for the environment basically a lookup
5. lookup throws error whenever we are unable to find some value.
6. scope maybe interesting since it seems like a nexted environment variables.


Chapter 8
part 8.4

1. assignment is simple just assign the value if the value exist otherwise throw the error in it.

Chapter 8
part 8.5

1. Scoping is like calling a method with different environment scope.
2. Also resetting it once it stop executing the block.
3. Left brace is responsible for starting new block and the right block is responsible for the right brace.


24-05-2025
Chapter 12
part 12.1 - 12.3

1. its about the class in the last few chapter i didn't noted anything, it is same as the declaring the function.
2. after capturing about the class name and basic syntactics. capturing all the methods
3. after that treat the class as a callable since it is a callable so that it can create a instance of it
4. on calling it it should return the instance of itself.

part 12.4

1. its not fancy there, just a simple create of the field map in the instance object
2. field can be set and get by capturing it in the parser, previously we are trying check continuous function call, just like that we check for the dot and return the new type as seting up the field
3. get is easy in the place where we are trying to capture the value we are just trying to capture the dot an if we find then we are referencing to the object get method.


part 12.5

1. adding features now seems so easy, add to ast generator and after that add some property according to the logic.
2. Base/structure of the code matters a lot!
3. Methods addition is simple just take the methods and pass to the class declaration, whenever some try to access it just go to parent find it and return

part 12.6

1. "this" is nothing special as i assumed it is just the reference of itself. in this too we didn't do anything special. they/I just created a new Environment for the methods. every method get a closure kind of environment with this as the reference to the own object.


part 12.7

1. constructor, nothing special after all, just a method which we call by our own.
2. but return type of it is fixed properly since, user can return anything. but constructor should always return this.
3. user can return null/nil but it should always be returning the this.

part 13.1-13.2

1. super class and subclass
2. for parser its easy nothing there just capture it and add it to the object.
3. for the interpreter too its not too hard as per just calling it since in find method we just have to return superClass.findMethod()
4. for the super keyword, we didn't implement it but i think it is same as this keyword, refer to the parent.

Date 25-05-2025

1. I found the bug
2. i mistakenly create some problem in the for loop.
3. i found that the parser is working fine and passing the values to the interpreter.
4. 2 possible cause which i can assume is that.
    - 1. for loop is not creating the variable;
    - 2. while resolving it is giving the wrong the locals depth value.

Date 26-05-2025
1. Finally, bugs are fixed
2. I added the logger for logging out the output.
3. now I need to add a class which will be responsible for talking the logger and string data and run the program.
4. it is for the next goal which is make a webapp for it.